# Emotion Classification using audio and image data
## Introduction
This project presents a framework for improving a chatbot's understanding of emotionally charged questions. Through facial expression (webcam) and verbalisation (microphone), a reply can be constructed with the asker’s respective emotion and question. This concept has been developed and tested in a proof-of-concept study. The main goal of this study set out to investigate if image and audio data could score a higher accuracy when soft voted together. Furthermore, experimenting to see if a chatbot could be improved by providing an emotional understanding. This concept was implemented into a product allowing for a chatbot to provide emotional responses. The software was calibrated by taking between two to ten images and recordings of each emotion. In this case, three emotions were used: happy, neutral and sad. This was validated using test data that would be utilised to predict the user’s emotion, before passing the question and emotion through a chatbot to establish a reply. The overall accuracy concluded that the fused prediction results were seven per cent more accurate on average than the individual results. While most existing software only allows for a single data type to train on, this software allows for two. This paves the way for enhancing human emotion classification techniques, in addition to improving the emotional relationship between chatbot assistants and humans.

## How to use
To use this application run the main.py file. Read the start window to understand application. Dont click test mode as this will not work for you, instead enter the number of samples you want to take and click submit. Now take your samples using the promted on screen emotions. Allow time for models to be trained, this can be for a few second to a few minuets depending on computers power. Fianlly, take test samples and wait for result window to show you how well it performed at predicting your emotion. To hear the chatbots reply click the reply button.

## Required Packages
cv2, dlib, json, librosa, math, numpy, os, soundfile, threading, tensorflow, keras, tkinter, audiomentations, sklearn, pyaudio, time, wave, pydub, PIL, datetime, gtts, speech_recognition, playsound
